So, when you're doing end-to-end testing,
you want to be basically
pretending to be a user.
And that's why it's called end-to-end,
because you wanna test everything.
And notice how it would be difficult
to create an end-to-end test
that actually asserts that your clustering
algorithm actually works correctly.
It would be a hard thing to do.
It's possible, but it would be hard.
Also, it would be slow, because these
end-to-end tests actually require that
you perform navigation to a particular
page and you see the correct result.
So, typically we use some tools for
it, and Playwright, I think,
is one of them that's
most popular these days.
And I think it's one of
the best in terms of,
all these tools kind of learn from
the mistakes of the previous tools.
This is the latest one, and it tries to
provide the highest level of experience.
Playwright right now is kind of popular,
it is from Microsoft.
It's pretty cool, anyways.
>> We do have a full course on Cypress,
and
then we also-
>> [LAUGH]
>> In the Enterprise UI Dev, Testing and
Code Quality, which is a full course,
we have a section on Playwright there,
and Steve teaches both of those courses.
I'm pretty sure in the Enterprise
Playwright, he discusses the differences.
>> [LAUGH] Perfect.
>> So, there you go.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Perfect, so now with Playwright,
we really wanna make a test for
this particular component.
Let me just go over the component here.
Why isn't, okay, here we go.
Sorry that's, right.
So, okay, we have a component.
This component represents
this page right here, right?
So what we have on it is we have a page,
we have a form where you can
change your values over here.
I believe if I run this, If I, for
example, pick a wrong value and I hit,
let's see, it validates, right?
It shows me errors.
So I can only do specific range.
I believe the same thing happens
on a distance if I do, etc.
So there's validation that is
happening in the page as well.
So presumably, we would like
to check all of those things.
All right, so let's do an end-to-end test.
And we're talking about Playwright.
So let's install Playwright.
You go here,
run the command in a command line.
And that should initialize,
test sounds good.
Okay, so, Playwright is gonna set up
a runner for us, Playwright test, so
then we can just do test e2e and
essentially run Praywright.
So how do we create tests for Playwright?
So, remember that Playwright
pretends to be user, essentially.
We are bringing up
a real browser that does
real work to perform all these operations.
So the first thing we have to do is we
have to make sure that our server is
running.
So let's start our server.
And then,
Playwright created a test folder, and
in the test folder it created
an example test for us.
So you can see that has titled tests,
you navigate to a particular page,
there's lots of awaits in Playwright,
because everything's asynchronous.
And then you can expect that a title
contains a particular word inside of it.
So we're gonna do something similar for
our page,
Let's just copy their input statements.
And let's make a new test here.
So cluster.spec.ts, and
in here we would say test.
So let's say we wanna test our title,
right?
So we navigate to a page.
And we say, Page.
Go to Yes, here we go.
And let me do URL, go to Well,
we're not gonna go here,
we're going to go to this page right here.
So we have to await this,
and then we say expect.
They all await as well expect.
That page Title is title.
To contain,
what is to say this is called Chicago
traffic accidents clustering, okay.
To, to, To, they have title, no.
To, To have a higher level of think, okay,
All right, so
let's see if we can run this.
So to run it, we do our test.e2e.
Oops.
And we have failed our test.
Now, you probably want
to actually debug it.
So there's a special way to
run it into the debug mode.
Let me show you how that works.
Yes, this is the report.
So let's do that.
So, when you're in a debugger, you
essentially kind of get a debugger window,
and here's your test.
So in our case,
we had our s title cluster test,
and I can go and run it and
I can see what's
actually happening inside of Playwright.
I can see that it's failing because
expected string is clustering, but
the actual string is much longer.
So if I go and I change this in our test,
Then we should be able to rerun
the test and it should pass.
And so, you can see that what Playwright
has done is they have done a much better
job of kinda integrating everything.
So you kinda have an IDE around
your browser and you can go and
poke at it and see what is happening.